Health authorities must be able to detect the virus strain quickly through surveillance and diagnostic efforts and use this information to test and administer effective antivirals. 

Throughout this analysis, we assume that effective exit screening is in place, that symptomatic patients will not be allowed to board flights, and that the value of entry screening is to detect people who develop symptoms in flight. 

The short period between generations of cases of influenza means that it would take little time for those missed by screening to infect secondary cases, replacing those detected.

Adopting a policy of quarantining all exposed passengers on the detection of a single case could, however, substantially increase the benefit of entry screening.

On November 1, President Bush announced the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza, and requested emergency funding to begin immediately implementing the strategy, which includes $251 million for international efforts to enhance surveillance and response capabilities to detect and contain outbreaks.  

Should a pandemic emerge, whether from the current H5N1 subtype of concern or from another influenza virus with pandemic potential, the United States is better positioned today to detect an outbreak earlier.  

The U.S. Government is working to enhance the Nation's ability to detect and respond early and effectively to a pandemic. 

The Federal Government must accelerate the development of rapid diagnostic tests and screening tests to ensure that our efforts to detect disease, treat ill people, and limit disease transmission can be appropriately and effectively implemented. 

We will work with the WHO and our international partners to share information as an outbreak proceeds, and to coordinate our response actions as well as the public messaging that accompanies these actions. 

In  October  2006,  the  Virginia  Department  of  Health  (VDH)  held  a  two-day  pandemic  influenza  exercise  that  coordinated  response  procedures  with  Maryland  and  the  District  of  Columbia  to  ensure  a  seamless  response  throughout  the  National  Capitol  Region.  

The former plan coordinates pandemic influenza preparedness and response at all government levels, the private sector, individual citizens, and international entities. 

In the context of response to a pandemic, the Secretary of Homeland Security will coordinate overall non-medical support and response actions, and ensure necessary support to the Secretary of Health and Human Services coordination of public health and medical emergency response efforts. 

After screening 10,272 samples by minipool NAT, none of the samples were found to be infected by influenza.

Thus, dogs that are subclinically infected with influenza (H5N1) may contribute to virus spread.

Even though the H11-positive study participants had several years of exposure to wild birds infected with avian influenza virus through hunting and duck banding, they did not wear personal protective equipment, such as gloves, masks, or eye protection. 

This influenza strain has infected domesticated birds, including chickens, and also migratory and other wild birds in 50 countries across Asia, Europe, and Africa.

Clinical Management of Human Infection with Avian Influenza A (H5N1) Virus.

A pandemic occurs when a novel strain of influenza virus emerges that has the ability to infect humans and to cause severe disease, and where efficient and sustained transmission between humans occurs.

When available, the results of microbiologic studies should be used to guide antibiotic usage in patients with A(H5N1) infection.

This plan would guide the steps taken by USDA and our State and industry partners following a detection of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in domestic poultry.

To help the nation better protect critical infrastructure in the event of an influenza pandemic and to build on the progress made thus far, we recommend that the Secretary of Homeland Security, working with sector-specific agencies, lead efforts to encourage the government and private sector members of the councils to consider and help address the challenges that will require coordination between the federal and private sectors involved with critical infrastructure and within the various sectors in advance of, as well as during, a pandemic.

In light of the need to prepare for a possible pandemic despite concerns about the poor quality of the literature, combining available evidence with expert opinion about the relative merits of non-pharmaceutical interventions for pandemic influenza may lead to a more informed and widely accepted set of recommendations.

With WHO and FAO, the United States is providing training for thousands of policy and technical experts globally who will lead efforts to contain and mitigate the impact of animal outbreaks.

The Center for Drug Evaluation and Research leads the Anti-viral Drug Development, Production, and Regulatory Review Subgroup.

In every state, governors and senior officials will be at the forefront of protecting public health, maintaining critical services and infrastructure, and leading the public from crisis to recovery.

HHS continues to work with partners throughout the world, including the WHO, to monitor disease spread and prepare for possible pandemics.

APEC Leaders endorsed the U.S. co-sponsored initiative on "Preparing for and Mitigating an Influenza Pandemic" to ensure that the economies of the region working individually and collectively can better prepare for, prevent, and respond to a potential influenza pandemic .

Unfortunately, in recent years, our government's approach to preparing the nation for a possible influenza pandemic has been highly misguided. 

Though we have made significant progress over the past year to prepare the Nation and the international community for the threat threat of an influenza pandemic, much important work lies ahead. 

The lessons from history should be kept in mind whenever we are told by government officials that tough, liberty-limiting actions are needed to protect us from dangerous diseases. 

The federal government and private sector are working together to protect the nation's critical infrastructure in the event of an influenza pandemic. 

In some instances the federal and private sectors are working together through a set of councils as the primary means of coordinating government and private sector efforts to protect critical infrastructure. 

The unprecedented efforts to prepare for and respond to the threat of a pandemic underscore our resolve to protect human life and safeguard our Nation. 

A respirator (for example, an N95 or higher filtering facepiece respirator) is designed to protect you from breathing in very small particles, which might contain viruses. 

Personal protective equipment is any type of specialized clothing, barrier product, or breathing (respiratory) device used to protect workers from serious injuries or illnesses while doing their jobs. 

Although the community mitigation strategy may significantly reduce illness and death, implementing this strategy will not be easy. 

Improving disease detection and surveillance, utilizing antiviral medications, and promoting healthy behaviors such as hand washing and cough etiquette could help reduce the spread of seasonal influenza and other respiratory diseases. 

The arrows highlight the effect of an intervention that reduces transmission by 20% for three different baseline values of R0. 

These interventions, coupled with the use of antiviral medications, could dramatically reduce the number of people who become infected, potentially preventing illness and death in millions of Americans. 

Alternative methods for developing vaccines are also being studied in order to reduce the amount of vaccine that is needed to provide protection and to increase the number of strains against which a vaccine is effective. 

Our study demonstrates that screening donor blood for influenza A (H5N1) subtype or for influenza viruses in general by minipool nucleic acid amplification technique (NAT) is feasible.

The  Utah  DOH  responded  to  the  outbreak.

I am pleased to appear here today to discuss the federal government's efforts to prepare for and respond to a possible influenza pandemic. 

The U.S. Government is working to enhance the Nation's ability to detect and respond early and effectively to a pandemic. 

Real-time surveillance is needed to provide broad situational awareness, including the ability to detect, integrate, analyze, and operationally respond to pandemic influenza. 

The unprecedented efforts to prepare for and respond to the threat of a pandemic underscore our resolve to protect human life and safeguard our Nation. 

Pandemic vaccines are likely to play little or no role in efforts to stop or contain a pandemic, at least in its initial phases.

The work could help scientists detect and contain a future bird flu outbreak among humans.

The United States is better positioned today to detect an outbreak earlier, to support an international effort to contain the pandemic in its earliest stages.

This antiviral drug supply will allow public health officials to help contain or suppress a pandemic outbreak.

Official doctrine, as well as the popular imagination, erroneously embraces the idea of U.S. communities somehow escaping pandemic flu by containing the first cluster of human infections overseas, monitoring points of entry to and egress from affected areas, and imposing geographic quarantines at home.

We reviewed the recently posted plans of 49 states for vaccination, early epidemic surveillance and detection, and intraepidemic plans for containment of pandemic influenza.

The Federal Government will collaborate fully with international partners to attempt containment of a potential pandemic wherever sustained and efficient human-to-human transmission is documented.

Pediatric hospitalizations associated with laboratory-confirmed influenza infections are monitored by two population-based surveillance networks, the Emerging Infections Program (EIP) and the New Vaccine Surveillance Network (NVSN).
Specifically, we set out to develop and test a "Look-Back" methodology to assist state public health agencies (SPHAs) in systematically assessing their experiences from each routine annual influenza season and translating those experiences into future public health practice.

Further studies will test whether this drug can treat seasonal and other life-threatening influenza viruses such as H5N1._

For this reason, states, the federal government, and the private sector will need to test and evaluate pandemic flu plans through periodic exercises that expose gaps and build relationships among and across all levels of government and institutions.

